# MicroTESK Installation Guide

## System Requirements

Being developed in Java, MicroTESK can be used on Windows, Linux, macOS, and other systems with
the following software installed:

* JDK 1.11+;
* Apache Ant 1.8+.

To generate test data based on constraints, MicroTESK needs an SMT solver such as Z3 or CVC4.

## Installation Steps

1. Download from http://forge.ispras.ru/projects/microtesk/files and unpack the MicroTESK
   installation package (the `.tar.gz` file, latest release) to your computer.

2. Download and install constraint solver tools to the `<installation dir>/tools` directory
   (see the `tools/README.md` document for details).

3. Declare the `MICROTESK_HOME` environment variable and set its value to the path to the
   installation directory (see the Setting Environment Variables section).

4. Set the `<installation dir>/bin` as the working directory (add the path to the `PATH`
   environment variable) to be able to run MicroTESK utilities from any path.

5. Now you can run the `compile.sh` (or `.bat`) script to create a microprocessor model
   and the `generate.sh` (or `.bat`) script to generate tests for this model.

## Setting Environment Variables

### Windows

1. Open the `System Properties` window.
2. Switch to the `Advanced` tab.
3. Click on `Environment Variables`.
4. Click `New...` under `System Variables`.
5. In the `New System Variable` dialog specify variable name as `MICROTESK_HOME` and variable value
   as `<instrallation dir>`.
6. Click `OK` on all open windows.
7. Reopen the command prompt window.

### Linux and macOS

Add the command below to the `~.bash_profile` (Linux) or `~/.profile` (macOS) file:

```
export MICROTESK_HOME=<installation dir>
```

To start editing the file, type `vi ~/.bash_profile` (or `vi ~/.profile`).
Changes will be applied after restarting the command-line terminal or reboot.
You can also execute the command in your command-line terminal to make temporary changes.

## Installation Directory Structure

The MicroTESK installation directory contains the following subdirectories:



| Directory | Description |
| :-------- | :-----------|
| `arch` | Examples of microprocessor specifications and test templates for the described designs |
| `bin`  | Scripts to run features of MicroTESK (modeling and test generation)                    |
| `doc`  | Documentation on MicroTESK                                                             |
| `etc`  | MicroTESK configuration files                                                          |
| `gen`  | Generated Java models of the specified microprocessor designs                          |
| `lib`  | JAR files and Ruby scripts to perform modeling and test generation tasks               |
| `src`  | Source code of MicroTESK                                                               |

## Running MicroTESK

To generate a Java model of a microprocessor from its nML specification, a user needs to run the
`compile.sh` script (Linux and macOS) or the `compile.bat` script (Windows).
For example, the following command generates a model for the miniMIPS specification:

```
$ sh bin/compile.sh arch/minimips/model/minimips.nml arch/minimips/model/mmu/minimips.mmu
```

**NOTE:** Models for all demo specifications are included in the MicroTESK distribution package.
So a user can start working with MicroTESK from generating test programs for these models.

To generate a test program, a user needs to use
the `generate.sh` script (Linux and macOS) or
the `generate.bat` script (Windows).

The scripts require the following mandatory parameters:

* model name;
* test template file path.

For example, the following command runs the `euclid.rb` test template
for the miniMIPS model generated by the command from the previous example and
saves the generated test program to an assembly file:

```
$ sh bin/generate.sh minimips arch/minimips/templates/euclid.rb
```

The file name is based on values of the `--code-file-prefix` and `--code-file-extension` options.

Also, MicroTESK uses a set of additional parameters that can be used to customize its behavior.
To get more information about them, the user needs to run MicroTESK with the `--help` key.
